>> Richard Feldman: So
we've just done some file I/O, and
now the final thing that we need for
our web server to possibly be able to work
is we need to be able to do network I/O.
In our case,
we're only gonna be going over localhost,
but the same basic concepts apply.
Okay, so to do network I/O in C with no
third party libraries, we're gonna first
open a socket, then we're gonna listen for
connections on that socket.
We're gonna read from the socket, and
then, finally, write to a socket.
So all of these have different interesting
considerations around things that we
haven't seen so far in C.
Okay, the first thing that I
should mention is that LIBC,
which is the C standard library,
loves file descriptors.
[LAUGH] We've seen them be used for files.
But let me tell you, if C can solve
a problem with a file descriptor,
it is very happy to do that.
When we saw the write function earlier on,
that was a file descriptor for
a standard out as file descriptor.
We use file descriptors for files, and
we also use file descriptors for sockets.
This is one of the cases where
Windows is a little bit different.
Windows uses a very similar API, but
it actually doesn't use literal
file descriptors for its sockets.
It uses a thing that looks and works
almost exactly like a file descriptor,
except that it's technically
a different type.
And they kind of have their
own integer space for those.
But basically, for our purposes, for
focusing on the UNIX/POSIX flavor of C.
Basically, when we call this
function called socket, which,
these arguments we'll
get into this in a sec.
It gives us back a socket file descriptor.
And this file descriptor is just
an integer, just like the file
descriptors we were using for
open and fstat and read and all that.
This first constant here is basically
just saying, hey, I wanna do IPv4 socket.
So you actually have to open a different
socket type if you wanna handle IPv4
addresses versus IPv6 IP addresses.
We're only gonna deal with IPv4 for
this web server.
But if you did want to handle IPv6,
this would be the place to start,
is to give a different constant there.
Basically, we're saying
TCP instead of UDP.
So UDP is a protocol that's
commonly used for game servers,
certain really high
performance networking things.
But it has a downside of, if you send
the packets out, you don't get a response.
You don't know if they made it
to their destination or not,
you're just kind of spamming
them into the void.
Which, for games,
is often actually what you want.
But for our use case, we definitely
want TCP to talk to a browser.
And then finally,
there's a protocol number,
we're not really gonna
get into what that means.
Also, there's kind of some more
boilerplate that we need to do here.
This is basically just
an interesting demonstration, well,
A, of some C boilerplate, this is kind
of what boilerplate in C looks like.
But B, it's also a slightly different
C API pattern that we haven't quite
seen before, so we're just gonna
talk through it very briefly.
So we're calling this function called
setsockopt, which is basically,
I'm gonna configure this
socket that we've opened.
So the first argument is the socket
file descriptor of the socket that we
want to work with.
And we're gonna talk
about these constants.
This is the interesting part here,
this &opt.
So basically,
what this &opt is doing is that, remember,
we talked earlier, opt is an integer.
But anything that you want in C,
if you wanna get the address of this
variable, you can just always say &.
And so what this is doing is it's saying,
I wanna pass in the address of this
integer, and then setsockopt is
actually going to mutate that integer.
So this is the same kind of pattern
as what we saw earlier with memcopy.
Where we were like, hey,
I'm gonna give you the address of these
bytes, I want you to stomp all over them.
Or what we saw later on with fsat,
where we're like, hey, here's this struct.
I'm gonna give you the address,
I want you to stomp all over it.
Now we're doing that same thing, but
we're doing it with an individual integer.
So there's really no limit to how much C
[LAUGH] libraries will use this pattern.
Once again, this is C standard library,
ships with the operating system.
And it's like, yeah,
give me the address of this integer,
I'm going to stomp all over it when you
call me, that's how these things work.
Or, sorry, it potentially will stomp all
over it, it doesn't necessarily have to.
And then finally, sizeof(opt), because
that actually wants to know how big of
a thing is in there, for
reasons we'll discuss later.
So why do we need to do
this setsockopt thing?
So if you want, you can omit this.
And I considered leaving it out of
the course, but I decided to put it in for
two reasons.
One is, it's an example of boilerplate,
it's an example of this sort
of unusual pattern here.
But two, it's kind of an ergonomics thing
if you're just trying to run the web
server locally.
If you don't do this, I don't actually
know the exact reason for this,
I haven't dug into it all the way.
But the symptom that you see is that when
you're stopping and restarting the server
a lot, which I was doing as I was trying
it out while building the course.
Sometimes you get an address in use error,
even when the server isn't running.
So it's like, hey, port 8080?
That's in use, I'm like, no,
it's not, I stopped the server,
what are you talking about?
Then you just wait for a couple seconds
and run it again, it's like, yeah,
it's not in use anymore.
So there's something about the address
can sometimes kind of linger,
unless you set this thing
which says reuse address.
Which I guess means, I don't know, don't
keep it in use longer than my process.
I'm sure that someone could explain the
design decisions that led this to not be
the default behavior.
But at any rate, this is some boilerplate
that you need to do [LAUGH] if you want to
get it so that when you stop the local
server and restart it, as long as you're
not actually using that port for
something else, you don't get an error.
Okay, so we talked about this, and [COUGH]
basically, yeah, so I forgot about this.
Opt is an integer, but
it's always gonna be either a 1 or a 0.
And then yeah, sizeof returns, basically,
how many bytes are in whatever
variable you give it.
So this is statically known,
so because I gave it an opt,
this is not actually passing
in the number 1 here.
This is actually a language keyword, and
what goes inside the parentheses
is the name of a variable.
And then what sizeof returns is how
many bytes in memory does that variable
take up.
So this is kind of like typeof in
JavaScript, it's a fancy separate thing,
it's not actually looking
at the value itself.
Okay, yeah, so this is just kind of a
weird API for how they decided to do that.
[COUGH] Okay, moving on.
So the next thing we're gonna specify
is essentially, what is the actual
port that we want to bind on, so
when you start up the local server.
I chose localhost:8080,
you can choose whatever you want.
Some of them use like 3000 or
1337 or 8000 or something like that,
just went with 8080,
it's one of the common ones.
Basically, we're making this struct.
Once again,
we are initially declaring this struct
as just empty plain old bytes here.
So this is all initialized memory, and
then we're just gonna go through and
initialize that.
We're gonna say address.sin_family
= AF_INET, this is IPv4 again.
[COUGH] Then, within this thing,
we're setting the s_addr.
Worth noting that this thing right here
is another struct that's uninitialized,
we're only setting one
field in that struct.
Again, [LAUGH] this is C,
sometimes the APIs are kind of strange.
And this is basically saying,
I don't care, I just want any address,
which means the other fields
are just gonna be ignored.
So we don't even bother
to initialize them.
And then finally we have the port.
And this is the actual interesting
part where we're saying, okay,
this is port 8080.
And then that's htons, does some sort
of conversion to convert this from
the integer 8080 into whatever
the type is that sin_port wants.
Okay, so again, none of this is
necessarily anything that we
haven't seen before, other than
initializing a nested struct [LAUGH].
[LAUGH] This memory is just
all total memory garbage.
But this is pretty much just boilerplate
to set up the socket with the parameters
we want.
Next thing we do is we call bind.
So now that we've essentially said, okay,
open the socket,
we got our socket file descriptor.
We called setsockopt to configure that
socket to don't say address
is in use spuriously.
We made this address, we set it up,
and then finally, we're calling bind,
passing on the socket file descriptor and
then the address.
So this is actually gonna say, okay, now
port 8080 is sort of bound to that socket.
So the socket before we did this
bind is essentially the sort
of communications channel.
We're not gonna get too deep into how
the operating system deals with sockets.
But the basic idea is just that until
we've done this bind operation right here,
this is just sort of a communications
channel we can send data to and
receive data from using manual
other read and write type stuff.
But when we do bind, now we're actually
connecting this to the actual port 8080.
And now we're saying, okay,
whenever we receive data on port 8080,
I want it to go to this socket.
And then we have that same pattern before,
we have the ampersand of the address.
So it's giving him the address
of the address, or, I guess,
a pointer to the address,
[LAUGH] I don't know,
the word address makes it
hard to say this out loud.
But the ampersand, as usual, is like,
give me the memory address of this thing.
We do need to actually
cast this in this case.
Because, yeah, of some weird API
decisions that they made, where,
basically, bind will accept one
of several different structs.
And you're supposed to make whichever
struct is appropriate for your use case,
whether it's IPv4 or IPv6.
But whichever one you choose,
they do have a couple of fields in common.
And so
bind wants you to essentially say, hey,
tell me about the actual subset of the
fields in this struct that I care about.
And the rest you can just
store however you want.
And then sizeof(address) is basically
saying, bind also wants to know,
okay, what's the full size of
the struct that you're passing me,
even though I'm only
gonna look at a subset.
So again,
a little bit of a strange API there, but
nothing that we haven't seen before.
It's just might feel a little bit
strange and kind of unergonomic.
Yeah, so this is just the the casting to
say, okay, we're treating this memory
address as a sockaddr address,
rather than a sockaddr_in address.
As opposed to sockaddr, I think it's
in6 is the IPv6 version of that, in6,
that's what it is, right?
So basically, what this is doing is
saying, okay, we have the first two fields
of sockaddr_in, which is sa_family_t,
and uint16_t for the port.
Same kind of basic thing right here,
in6 has these same two first fields.
And sockaddr,
the sort of generic struct that is like,
I'm sort of compatible
with either of these.
The first field is the same, so
this is the subset that we care about.
The sa_family refers to
either the sin6 family or
the sin family,
depending on it's IPv6 or IPv4.
And then this thing right here
is essentially just [COUGH]
covering the bytes for multiple fields.
So it's basically just sort of like
a padding, something like that.
And so, whereas these both have 2 bytes,
and this is just, yeah,
there's some more stuff going on here.
So because this is
the address of an array,
this is gonna be actual 8 bytes
instead of these 2 bytes.
So yeah, this is covering those 2 bytes
and then some, and so reserving space for,
I guess, potential future things
that might be in these structs.
Okay, so again, we don't need
to spend a ton of time on this,
just if you ever see this pattern,
you're wondering what's going on here,
why it's asking me to cast this?
The reason is that it wants you to say,
okay, I know that you locally are gonna
have one of these two addresses and
I wanna just get a subset of these things.
To be honest, I'm not totally sure
why they didn't just say like
give me the sa_family_t, since that's
the only thing it's actually using.
Maybe it reads this data for some reason,
I'd be kind of surprised about that, but
maybe it is.
But at any rate, this is how
you sort of deal with that sort
of [LAUGH] strange API
that they've got here.
And this cast is basically sort of
confirming that I'm saying, look, I know
that this memory address is addressing
memory that's got this shape to it.
But trust me, I know what I'm doing,
I want you to [COUGH] treat it as
a memory address of one of these.
And that's gonna be fine,
it's gonna work out, trust me.
This is sort of a general
theme of casting in C,
when you do this sort of
parentheses in front of the thing,
is you're basically saying, I know
that there's these 1's and 0's here.
I know that you think,
based on what I declare them as,
that they should be treated as
these types of 1's and 0's.
But trust me, it's gonna be fine if you
treat them as meaning something else.
The same 1's and
0's are meaning something else.
It's gonna be okay, even though it
looks like it's gonna be a mistake.
I am promising that it's not gonna be
a mistake, just trust me and go ahead and
use them in that way.
Okay, and then, yeah, right, so then
the last thing here is basically saying,
okay, well, I don't know how many
actual bytes I giving you because
I'm casting it to something else.
So bind wants to know how many actual
bytes does this address point to.
How far can I go if I want
to read into this thing?
Which I assume is so that,
because this thing covers multiple bytes,
is it wants to know, well, did you give
me something that was too short, and
I need to not even attempt
to read this whole thing.
Because then I would be reading off
the end of whatever you gave me,
and then reading into memory
that I'm not responsible for.
Okay, so that's bind [LAUGH].
So now we've our socket set up.
We've bounded to port 8080
using this kind of strange API.
And next, we're gonna call listen.
So listen basically takes one
argument that we care about,
which is basically how many different
connections can we sort of stack
up before we have to start
refusing to accept new ones.
So the way that you can imagine this is,
I've said, okay, I've got my socket,
I am by binding it to port 8080.
And whenever something comes in on port
8080, of course I'm gonna run some code
that's gonna be like, okay,
let me read that data and handle it.
And that takes some time, and
I have to actually wait for
running the processing on
the data that's coming in.
But what happens if in the operating
system I'm getting stuff in, it's like,
okay, here's some more.
Hey, I'm processing, just chill out,
I'm processing this,
it's like more requests is coming in,
they're starting to stack up.
What this number says is how many requests
are allowed to stack up before they start
erroring out.
And whoever's sending the request,
whether it's the browser or whoever else,
just starts getting an error saying,
like, yeah, I'm sorry,
the server is too busy right now.
Now you might say just, I don't know,
why would you ever want that to error out?
And the answer is, well,
the higher you make this number,
the more memory it's gonna use.
So this is just like it's reserving space
for, yeah, stack up a bunch of these.
So if you set this to a billion,
then it's like, yeah, no problem,
we can have 4 gigabytes worth
of requests stacking up.
It's like, well, we're never gonna get
through them all in a timely fashion.
It's just gonna get worse and
worse and worse over time,
we're gonna get further and
further behind.
So you wanna pick some number here that is
based on what kind of traffic patterns you
anticipate and how fast you think you can
handle the requests, that sort of thing.
And finally, once we've done all that
stuff, and remember [LAUGH] how many
slides worth of code we are omitting
with these dot, dot dots.
Now we can finally print, hey,
we're listening on localhost port 8080.
And now we can actually start
to get to the interesting part,
which is processing these things.